# 0.1. Why Learn to Program?
Why learn to program? In particular, why should an aspiring scientist, such as someone beginning a degree in 
neuroscience, cognitive science, or one of the social sciences, learn to program?
There are two general answers to this question.

The first answer is practical. Computer programming is a tool, one that allows a scientist to vastly increase the kinds of questions 
that they can ask and answer. Consider all of these things that you can do, easily, if you become a competent
python programmer:

- Creating surveys that are scored automatically, and that can be adaptive and different depending
on how certain questions are answered
- Designing and creating experiments, games, and other apps that allow you to gather data from people
in the research lab and also in their day-to-day lives
- Performing complex data analyses and creating visualizations of your data that go far beyond what you can do
with basic data analysis and statistical software like Microsoft Excel and SPSS.
- Creating computer models and simulations of neurons, brains, minds, and even whole people, 
using those models and simulations to develop more precise scientific theories about the cause and effect
relationships that define thinking and behavior.

In the course of teaching you to program in the Python programming language, 
this module will introduce all of these applications and give a preview of how to implement many different
programs, tools, and apps.

There is a second answer to "why learn to program", that is of particular interest to those studying
minds, brains, and behavior. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy defines Cognitive Science as 
“the interdisciplinary study of mind and intelligence, embracing philosophy, psychology, 
artificial intelligence, neuroscience, linguistics, and anthropology.” One 