# 1.4. Lab Activities


## Activity 1
Write a program called "lab1-1.py" that asks you to input your three favorites musicians or musical groups.
The program should use three separate input statements and store the name's in three separate variables.
Next, make the program print out the three names using a print statement that makes use of the "format" function to
the name stored in the variable into the output. Your output should look like:
> Your favorite musician is Orbital.<br>Your second favorite musician is the Beatles.<br>Your third favorite musician is Taylor Swift.


## Activity 2
Below is a list of all the song's by Justin Bieber that are in Spotify's Top 50 most played songs.
For each, the rank, title, artists, and play count (in millions) are listed.

> 7, Despacito (Remix), Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee featuring Justin Bieber, 1,182<br>
9, Love Yourself, Justin Bieber, 1,160<br>
10, Sorry, Justin Bieber, 1,138<br>
16, Let Me Love You, DJ Snake featuring Justin Bieber, 1,045<br>
21, Cold Water, Major Lazer featuring Justin Bieber and MØ, 982<br>
24, What Do You Mean?, Justin Bieber, 975<br>
50, I'm the One, DJ Khaled featuring Justin Bieber, Quavo, Chance the Rapper and Lil Wayne, 831

Write a program called "lab1-2.py" that asks you to input the play count for each song, one at a time.
For example, first it should ask, "How many times has "Despacito, by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee featuring Justin Bieber, been played on Spotify?"
Have the program keep track of the running sum total play count for all of the song's combined.
Then have the program compute the average and output the following line (with the correct numbers).
> Justin Bieber's Top 50 songs<br>Total Plays:             XXXXX<br>Average Plays per Song:  Y.YYY

Use the format function to format the output. The average should display 3 decimal places, and the two numbers should
be aligned perfectly so that they both start in the exact same spot, as above.

## Activity 3.
Below are the ten questions from the "Big 5 Personality Test" pertaining to a person's introversion/extroversion score.
> 1\. I am the life of the party.<br>
2\. I don't talk a lot.<br>
3\. I feel comfortable around people.<br>
4\. I keep in the background.<br>
5\. I start conversations.<br>
6\. I have little to say.<br>
7\. I talk to a lot of different people at parties.<br>
8\. I don't like to draw attention to myself.<br>
9\. I don't mind being the center of attention.<br>
10\. I am quiet around strangers.

Write a program called "lab1-3.py" that prints the following instructions:
> This is a personality test measuring introversion and extroversion.
for each statement, respond by stating how much you agree with on the scale 1-5, 
>where 1=disagree, 2=slightly disagree, 3=neutral, 4=slightly agree and 5=agree.

Then, the program should ask each question, one at a time, and record the response.
Finally, the program should compute the person's extroversion score.
There score should be calculated by starting with 20, and adding the values from all of the odd-numbered
questions, and subtracting the values from the even numbered questions.