# 1.1. Defining the Mind

---
### 1.1.1. What is a mind?

---
Before we can study the mind and understand how it works, we might want to try to define what the mind is in the first place. So, what is a mind? Answering this question is much harder than it might seem, and our potential answers have profound consequences for what we study and how we study it.

Let’s start our attempt to define the mind by having you think about your own mind. Your mind should be easy to understand. Consider how much experience you have with it! It would seem that every moment you are there, it is there too. In fact, this equivalence of your mind with your very existence was at the core of the French philosopher Descartes’s “Cogito ergo sum” ("I think, therefore I am") argument. Descartes was ruminating about the nature of knowledge, and whether he could ever truly be certain about anything. He asked himself, what if an evil demon was deceiving him, and was falsifying all of his sensory input? If this were the case, all of the conclusions he could draw from observing the world could be a lie! How could he know if anything he believes is actually true? Descartes concluded that there was one thing he could be certain of. This is the fact that he must, in fact, exist. Because if he did not exist, then there was no way he could be thinking about this uncertainty, or asking this question, in the first place. The very fact that he could think and ask questions, was evidence that he did, in fact, exist. 

But it is one thing to know that you exist, and you know that you have a mind. It is another thing altogether to say what a mind is. The first and most important lesson in the study of Brain and Cognitive Science and that the definition of what a mind is, is a very difficult problem, and inspires much debate. Consider this example. What if one is of the opinion that what defines a mind is the capacity to represent, store, and use factual information in a logical or rational manner? This seems like a reasonable definition of a mind. But, if we use this definition, does the sensor system on an automatic door opener at a supermarket count as a mind? It can represent information (the presence or absence of an entity at a particular point in space), and it acts on that information (by opening the door, or sending the signal for the door to be opened). It would seem to meet our definition of a mind. But this can’t be right, can it?

This debate over the definition of a mind might seem very abstract. It might seem like a debate for ivory tower philosophers who are wasting their brilliance on stupid questions, when they could be solving real world problems. But it is not a debate for ivory tower philosophers. Or at least, it is not a debate just for ivory tower philosophers. How we explicitly define what counts as a mind (or our implicit and unexamined assumptions about what counts as a mind and what does not) can shape and constrain our research on more practical problems.

For example, what if we are interested in doing research to discover how to teach young children to read. Also imagine that we believe that learning to read is exclusively an act of the mind, and that the mind is something that consciously reasons about information it believes to be true. Under this scenario we might limit our research to explicit reasoning and instruction methods, and eschew methods that involve rote practice and subconscious training. This might be unfortunate, if it turns out that involving rote practice and subconscious training as part of learning to read helps children learn how to do it much faster (and considerable evidence suggests that it does).

Definitions (even if only fuzzy ones) of what we are studying matter a great deal. Even when (or especially when) we are focused on more specific, concrete, and applied problems (like how children learn to read), definitions affect what we study and how we study it. A scientific approach to studying the mind involves gathering evidence and reasoning based on that evidence. But our theories and definitions affect what data we gather, or what kind of information we consider to be valid data for the scientific reasoning process. We will return to this issue again and again, and demonstrate how it has influenced (and sometimes impeded) research on the study of the mind and brain.