# 1.1. Defining the Mind

---
### 1.1.2. Examples of Minds

---
Coming up with a precise definition of the mind may be too difficult a task with which to start. But perhaps we can ask about some specific questions to get us on the right track. Take a moment to seriously consider each of the following questions. If you are taking notes, perhaps jot down your thoughts for each one.

Do all humans have minds? Can we think of examples of situations where there are people who we would consider to be humans, but who we would say they do not have a mind? In colloquial speak we sometimes say someone has “lost their mind”. Is this just a metaphor, or can it sometimes literally be true? For example, can brain damage or a brain disorder make it so that it is fair to say that the person no longer has a mind? If so, does this help us narrow our definition of what a mind is?

Continuing with humans, is it fair to say that humans of all ages all have minds? Is it possible that, before some age or developmental stage, the mind does not yet exist? Do all three-year-old’s have minds? What about all newborns? What about the fetus at 7 months of gestation? When does the mind begin, and what are the properties or features that come online that allow us to say, “after this point, there was a mind, but not before?”

If we limit our inquiry to healthy, typical adults, can we say that they have an active mind all the time? Does the mind ever turn off? Do you still have a functioning mind when you are asleep? What about if you were heavily sedated, or in a coma? Do hypnosis, meditation, or “mind-altering” drugs alter whether you have a mind, or just how the mind works? How can these altered states of consciousness help us understand what a mind is and how it works?

Moving away from humans, what about animals? Do animals have minds, or minds that are anything like human minds? Many pet owners think their beloved dogs and cats have minds capable of thinking and feeling. But for some reason they don’t like the thought of extending this same consideration to cows and pigs. Dolphins, crows, and octopus all show signs of extreme intelligence. Do they have minds? What about goldfish, or ants, or worms? Is there some dividing line in the animal kingdom where we can say, on this side of the line, there are minds, and on the other, there is not?

Maybe we want to say that all animals have minds, if only very simple ones. What, then, about plants? They don’t have a nervous system, but they still take in information from their environment, and change their behavior as a consequence (even if those “choices” and “behaviors” are occurring at such a slow pace that it seems strange to us to call them choices and behaviors at all). Many people want to draw a line between plants and animals, and say that it is a nervous system that provides the dividing line between mind and non-mind. But surely it isn’t this simple. Are two neurons in a petri dish, connected and signaling each other, a rudimentary mind? Does a nervous system have to be of a certain complexity? It seems very odd to think that I could add neurons to a nervous system, one at a time, and at some point, the addition of a single neuron would make the collection go from not having a mind to having a mind.

If having a biological nervous system is equivalent to having a mind, this raises major questions about whether there could ever be true artificial intelligence. Can machines, computers, or software ever truly have a mind?


