# 1.1. Defining the Mind

---
### 1.1.3. Properties of Minds

---
An alternative approach to attempting to derive a definition of the mind is to start with the features themselves (like whether an entity “can think”, “has free will”, or “is conscious”, and to use those features to propose logical arguments about whether the features, if they are present in a thing, are necessary or sufficient to declare that that thing has a mind. This approach is often called deductive reasoning, because it often takes the form of making a logical argument like the following:

P1. All humans have minds<br>
P2. All humans can think<br>
C. Therefore, a mind is an entity that can think

Logical arguments like this are described as having a number of factual statements called premises, and a conclusion that, if the argument is valid, must be true if the conclusion is true. We will talk more about the ways of evaluating deductive arguments in Chapter 2. But the short version is that philosophers have focused on two criteria regarding features. 

The first criteria philosophers consider is, “is this feature sufficient to make something a mind?”. In other words, if a thing has this property, is that enough to declare that it is a mind regardless of its other features. The three-step argument outlined above is an argument that the ability to think is sufficient to declare that something has a mind.

The next criteria is, “is this feature necessary for minds to have?”. In other words, if a thing does not have this feature, it cannot be a mind. Unlike sufficient features (where having that feature enough), necessary features do not by themselves get you all the way to where you are trying to go. We might say that the ability to think is necessary for something to be said to have a mind, but that it is not by itself sufficient. Perhaps we might be convinced that computers can think (in that they process information and use it to come to some conclusion or decision based on how they are programmed to respond), but we do not think that this alone constitutes a mind. Perhaps we think that free will is necessary as well. We might argue that the ability to think and the possession of free will are both necessary, and jointly sufficient, to say that something has a mind. For something to have a mind, it must possess both of these features.

What are some features that philosophers have considered as necessary or sufficient features that make something a mind? We have already discussed two: the ability to think, and having a free will. Write out the logical argument that states that these two features are jointly sufficient for having a mind. Does this argument seem correct to you? Can you think of counter-examples that prove the argument incorrect? If a logical argument is incorrect, this must mean that either the premises are not true, or that the argument does not follow from the conclusions. If you find unconvincing the argument that having the ability to think and having free will make something a mind, what do you think is wrong with the argument? What are other features that you think might be necessary or sufficient for being a mind?

Cognitive psychology, the first fully-formed science of the mind, has tended to define the mind in terms of its properties. However, cognitive psychology’s approach to defining the mind’s features has been different than the approach taken by the field of philosophy, due to the fact that cognitive psychology came into being at the same time as the invention of the computer. In the 1950s and 1960s, the computer was a new and exciting tool that was reshaping human society. It inspired many to think about the mind, not just as analogous or similar to a computer, but literally as the same thing as a computer.

Thinking of the mind as a literal computer led cognitive psychologists to try to describe the mind in computer-like terms. This will be explored in much greater detail in later chapters, but the main features cognitive psychologists have focused on all involve thinking of the mind in terms of computer software, with the brain being the hardware that the mind’s programs are running on.

If you think of the mind as a set of computer software apps, there are three main kinds of features worth considering. First, what is the app’s mental purpose? The mind can be divided up into a bunch of programs that are for different things, such as the visual system for seeing, the auditory system for hearing, the episodic memory system for your autobiographical memories, and language system for producing and understanding language. The second property of a mental application is what data or information is the app taking in, processing, and outputting. For example, the language system is taking in sound waves, and resulting in some representation of the meaning or communicative intention of whoever was speaking. This stored information, and the various transformations that information goes through on its way from input to output, is typically called a mental representation. The third property of a mental application is the mental process that are transforming the mental representations from input to output. For example, the language system might involve one process that converts vibrating sound waves to basic units of sound like consonants and vowels, a second process that combines sounds into words, a third process that combines words into sentences, and a final process that computes the meaning of a sentence from its parts.