# 1.2. The Relationship Between Mind and Brain

---
### 1.2.3. Is the Mind the Same as the Brain?

---
As noted, scientists who study the mind or brain (whether coming from a biological, neuroscientific, psychological, or anthropological perspective) are overwhelmingly in agreement that the mind is dependent on and caused by the brain, and thus can be considered materialists. But this does not mean that all scientists believe that studying the brain is the only way, or even the best way, to study the mind. Scientists perspective on this question can largely be divided into three categories.

**Biological Reductionism**. The first are scientists who could be called “Fully Reductionist”. These are scientists (usually biologists or neuroscientists) who really do believe that the brain holds all of the keys to understanding the mind, and that explaining the mind at the level of cognitive psychology, or philosophy, or anthropology is unnecessary and counterproductive. These scientists may not believe that biology or neuroscience is currently capable of explaining everything. But that it eventually will. And when it does, sciences like cognitive psychology will fade away because there will be nothing left for them to explain.
Scientists who consistently hold this view are actually quite rare, because this position is in fact quite hard to defend. The main reason is that it is almost impossible to explain everything of interest purely in biological or neuroscientific terms, and still explain all of the phenomena that are of interest to human society. A fully biological reductionist explanation of behavior has its work cut out for it, because it cannot use any explanatory terms or concepts from psychology, anthropology, linguistics, or any other domain.
A scientist trying to explain everything in terms of biology can show that certain neurons were placed where they were in the brain, or connected in the way that they were, and must explain these facts in terms of biology, chemistry, and/or physics. That doesn’t seem so difficult. But a fully reductionist scientist cannot, in principle, give a biological account of depression, or of intelligence, or of language, because depression, intelligence, and language are themselves psychological concepts. If one can allows those psychological concepts in into the picture, it is difficult to determine where the line is about what psychological (or anthropological, or linguistic, etc.) concepts are allowed to be an element of the scientific explanation and which are not. The difficulty of working out a logical and consistent boundary that says psychological concepts A, B, and C are allowed in the theory, but X, Y, and Z are not, has meant that most scientists, when pushed, abandon the claim that full biological reductionism is a plausible position to hold with regard to the study of the mind and brain.

**Emergentism**. At the other end of the spectrum is the position that can be called emergentist. This is the perspective that the mind is an emergent product of the brain, but that the mind, once created, follows its own rules that cannot be understood or studied by referring back to the lower, biological level.

Or in other words, the lower level rules no longer apply, and can be violated by the higher level. What would this mean, like saying that you couldn’t predict whether or not an action potential would occur by analyzing the biology or chemistry, you would need to know something about the cognitive state. That seems unlikely.

**Pluralism**. A third position is one that can be called pluralist, in that people who hold this view argue that there are benefits to explaining behavior at multiple levels simultaneously.

Cognitive features are cranes built out of lower level (biological cranes). There is no magic skyhook. We could analyze at the lower level (as in Conway’s life), but it would be way more complicated, and so we may gain something if we analyze at a higher level. The cognitive level will be inherently noisier, and less precise, and we may sometimes need to seek recourse at the lower level to clean up the mess.