# 1.0. What is Brain and Cognitive Science?

---
## Chapter Outline

---
 1. Defining the Mind
 2. The Relationship Between Mind and Brain
 3. Defining Brain and Cognitive Science
 4. Ten Questions About Mind and Brain
 
---
## Chapter Overview

---
This chapter provides an introduction to Brain and Cognitive Science. We will discuss useful scientific definitions of the mind, and talk about the relationship between the mind and the brain. We will also put forward a definition of Brain and Cognitive Science, and discuss the ways in which it differs from traditional Psychology and Neuroscience. The submodule will conclude by discussing ten important and unanswered questions about the mind and brain.

It is very easy to define Brain and Cognitive Science in one sentence. Brain and Cognitive Science (BCS) is the study of the brain and of the mind: how the brain and mind work, how the brain and mind have come to be, and the consequences of the brain and mind for human behavior and human society.

It is also very easy to list specific examples of people who are studying things that might be called Brain and Cognitive Science:
- Developmental geneticists who are studying how different genes contribute to the development and growth of different brain structures are studying brain and cognitive science.
- Neuroscientists investigating the neurotransmitter serotonin, and how it affects neural action potentials, are practicing Brain and Cognitive Science.
- Psychologists studying how parents’ speech to children affects their child’s vocabulary development are studying Brain and Cognitive Science.
- Linguists and Computer Scientists attempting to program artificially intelligent agents to communicate with humans are engaging in Brain and Cognitive Science.
- Anthropologists studying how cultural differences shape the knowledge people can acquire, and what behaviors they are capable of demonstrating, are studying Brain and Cognitive Science.
- Teachers researching which methods of teaching children to read result in the best outcomes are engaging in Brain and Cognitive Science.
- Philosophers considering whether the nature of pigs’ minds have consequences for how we should treat them are practicing Brain and Cognitive Science.

However, it turns out to be very difficult to bridge the gap between the highest-level definition of Brain and Cognitive Science, on the one hand, and listing examples of Brain and Cognitive Science on the other. In fact, it is so difficult that it is rarely done. One theme of this book will be that the tendency of some Brain and Cognitive Scientists to ignore this question (the very definition of what they are studying, and the assumptions embedded therein) makes their work much harder, and has led to much unnecessary fighting and inefficiency in the research process. So, in this chapter we will make an attempt to better define the field of Brain and Cognitive Science, and to explain why such a definition is useful.

We will start with our simple definition, and try to extend it. We said that Brain and Cognitive Science is “the study of the brain and of the mind, how they work, how they have come to be, and what their consequences are”. Ok then, if Brain and Cognitive Sciences is the study of mind and brain, then let us begin by asking, what is a mind?

---
## How to Read this Submodule

---
As described in the introduction to this module, one important principle of this module will be applying what cognitive 
scientists have learned about learning, in terms of how this information was constructed, how it was organized, and how
we recommend you use read it in order to maximize your understanding and comprehension of the material. This is especially
true if you are reading this as a part of an official course where you will be tested. Whatever the reason, if you are
trying to maximize your understanding and performance, you should follow this principles:

 1. Read and answer the pre-reading questions at the beginning of each chapter. See why.
 2. Take notes using the Cornell note-taking method or something similar. See why.
 3. Make use of the interactive activities that are embedded throughout the module. See why.
 4. Read and answer the "Check your understanding" questions at the end of each submodule. See why.