# 1.7. Ten Questions About the Mind and Brain

---
### 0. Pre-Reading Questions

---
 1. What are three questions you have about the mind or brain?
 
---
### 1. What is a mind, and how does matter give rise to it?

---
There is no shortage of questions about the mind and brain. Brain and Cognitive Scientists still have much work to do. 
What is a mind, and s there a difference between mind and brain (or other forms of matter that might make up a mind)? 
How does matter give rise to mind?

---
### 2. How can we know and study other minds?

---
Some text

---
### 3. How do minds work?

---
Does the mind have a purpose? And if so, what is it? What are the mind's properties, and what are its functions? How do 
minds sense and perceive information? How do they learn and remember? How do they think, plan, and make decisions?

--- 
### 4. What is the role of sociality for the mind?

---
How do minds interact and communicate in social situations?

--- 
### 5. Are minds free, determined, or random?

---
Some text

--- 
### 6. Is it possible to read minds?

---
And by read minds, we're not talking about ESP. Decades of researchers looking for evidence that humans can read minds
have turned up so much negative evidence about ESP that everyone should be very skeptical that such phenomena exist.
With one important exception: by employing modern technology and ideas from brain and cognitive science itself. As we
will read about, advances in neuroscience and machine learning are allowing us to begin making predictions about what
people are thinking about by analyzing measurements taken from the brain. This technology is still in its infancy, and 
isn't very good. It can predict 80% of the time, whether you are thinking about a person, or a location, or an object.
But only 80% of the time does it even get the category correct. And it cannot at all predict which person, or which 
location, or which object. So mind reading through technology is still far from reality. But how far will this
technology be able to go? Are there fundamental limitations on using technology to read minds? Or will our descendents
all have chips implanted that help them read others minds, or prevent their from being read?

---
### 7. Do animals or machines have minds?

---
Some text

---
### 8. How did each mind come to be?

---
How has biological evolution shaped mind and brain? What role do genes and play in the development of mind and brain?
What role do learning and environment play in the development of mind and brain? How has cultural evolution shaped the 
context in which minds and brains have evolved, and the environments into which those minds are placed? 

---
### 9. What are applied consequences of a better understanding of mind and brain? 

---
What can we learn about improving treatment of mental and brain disorders? What can we learn about the mind and brain 
that can improve learning and education, how we teach babies, school-aged children, and college students? What have we 
learned about mind and brain enhancement? Does brain training work, or can you improve your mind and brain with drugs, 
meditation, or other non-traditional behaviors?

---
### 10. What are the moral and ethical consequences of a better understanding of the mind?

---
Some text

--- 
### 11. Check your understanding

---
 1. Name two of the questions that were discussed that are the most interesting to you. Why do you find them 
 interesting?