# 1.3. Defining Brain and Cognitive Science

---
### 1.3.2. Core Features of BCS

---
Beyond our simple definition of brain and cognitive science, we can list a set of different principles that unify the research and thought of most people who consider them to be brain and cognitive scientists. Not every person subscribes to all four, but they are broadly representative.

**An Interdisciplinary Study of Mind and Brain**<br>
The first major principle of brain and cognitive science is that it is an interdisciplinary field that relies on ideas and theories from many different fields. The vast majority of cognitive science see both cognitive psychology and neuroscience as very useful for understanding the mind. But they also feel that there are insights to be gained from other fields that study the mind. The mind is too complex, with too many contributing factors, to be completely understood by one perspective or approach.

**Computation as Method and Metaphor**<br>
The second major principle of brain and cognitive science is an emphasis on the role of computation. In cognitive science, computation plays two roles. First, it serves as a metaphor or meta-theory for how we think about the mind. In short, cognitive scientists often find it useful to think of the mind as if it were a computer. The mind takes in input, processes information, and then produces some kind of output. Exactly what this means, and how cognitive scientists use this approach to study the mind, will be explored in Chapter 3 in detail. In addition to using computation as a metaphor or theory of the mind, cognitive scientists also tend to rely heavily on computational methods as a part of their research programs. From its earliest days, computer models and simulations have played an important role in answering questions about the mind.

**Mental Representations and Information Processing**<br>
The third major principle of brain and cognitive science flows from the second. If the brain and mind can be thought of as a computer, then one of the most important questions becomes, how is information represented inside that computer, and how is that information processed?

Consider what happens when a person hears another person speaking. The only direct change in their bodily state is that their eardrum shakes in response to the fact that the molecules in the air are vibrating in a particular way. The person may be saying something of tremendous import, like warning you of an impending disaster, offering you your dream job, or telling you that they love you, and this may set of a complex chain of responses in your brain and body. All of this, caused by a little piece of tissue vibrating in a particular way. How are those vibrations converted into the sensation of sound, and how are those sensations of sound converted into information that you can understand and react to? What is the nature of how that information is encoded, stored, and retrieved, such that it can cause all these responses? And what are the consequences of the way it is represented and processed, such that saying or comprehending certain things is affected by the way this information is represented? Brain and cognitive scientists tend to pose many of their research questions in terms of the nature of how information is represented, and how those representations are processed.

**An Interest in Fundamental Questions of Mind and Brain**<br>
The fourth and  final major principle of brain and cognitive science is a tendency to be interested in big, foundational questions about the mind. A brain and cognitive scientist might be studying something very specific, like how the arrangement of neurons in the hippocampus affects the way that information in that structure is encoded and processed while you are remembering a sequence of pictures that you were shown in an experiment. But brain and cognitive scientists are usually doing those studies to get at some deeper, big-picture question. What is memory, and why is it good in some situations, and bad in others? How do you know things, from simple things like what a cat is, to complex things like how to do trigonometry, write a poem, or play basketball? Where does your knowledge and your skills come from? Are you born with most of your capacities, predetermined by your genes to be good at some things and bad at others? Or does culture, learning, and experience play a big role in why some people are good at some things and bad at others? What is intelligence? Is it a single thing, or is what we call intelligence really a vast constellation of specific skills? How does human intelligence really compare to that of other, non-human animals? What is it that makes us special? And what about machines and artificial intelligence? Will it one day be possible to create machines that are as smart, or smarter, than we are? 

