# 1.4. Ten Questions for Brain and Cognitive Science

---
#### 1.4.2. How can we know and study other minds?

---
A second question is how we can know and understand other minds. Remember that Descartes claimed that the primary fact of which he could be sure of its truth was that he had a mind. But how do we know if others do, or if their minds are anything like ours. A machine or an animal might be very good at appearing as though it has a mind (perhaps because it displays features that we erroneously associate with mind), but not truly have one. Philosophers have long debated about if and whether we can ever be certain about the nature of others’ minds or their subjective experiences. How do I know that you think like I think? Or at an even more fundamental level, how can I be sure that an apple tastes the same to you as it does to me, or that you are having the same experience of redness that I am having when looking at the same apple?

Setting aside the deeper philosophical questions, scientists face many methodological questions with regard to how to study the mind and brain. As one way to understand minds, psychologists, anthropologists, linguists, and other scientists have always employed a direct approach: asking people explicit questions about their experiences, beliefs, and thought processes. If I ask twenty individuals to arrange a set of pictures in order of how red they are, and they all do it in the same order, we may take that as evidence that there is something similar about the underlying experiences.

Cognitive psychology descended in part from an earlier behaviorist psychology. It retained behaviorism’s emphasis on measurement of behavior as a way to quantify and test it’s theories of how the mind works (even if it left behind behaviorism’s tendency to eschew discussion of internal mental constructions as explanations of those behaviors).

Neuroscience…And by read minds, we're not talking about ESP. Decades of researchers looking for evidence that humans can read minds have turned up so much negative evidence about ESP that everyone should be very skeptical that such phenomena exist. With one important exception: by employing modern technology and ideas from brain and cognitive science itself. As we will read about, advances in neuroscience and machine learning are allowing us to begin making predictions about what people are thinking about by analyzing measurements taken from the brain. This technology is still in its infancy, and isn't very good. It can predict 80% of the time, whether you are thinking about a person, or a location, or an object. But only 80% of the time does it even get the category correct. And it cannot at all predict which person, or which location, or which object. So, mind reading through technology is still far from reality. But how far will this technology be able to go? Are there fundamental limitations on using technology to read minds? Or will our descendants all have chips implanted that help them read others’ minds, or prevent their minds from being read?
