# 1.1. Defining the Mind

--- 
### 1.1.4. The Elusive Definition of Mind

---
We have not yet arrived at a definition of the mind, and we will continue to explore this topic through-out the book. Both deductive and inductive methods can be used to help us develop a definition. But both methods also give us trouble, of different kinds.

Inductive reasoning has the benefit of a clearly-defined procedure we can follow.  First, gather some examples. Second, decide what category the examples are in (such as “has a mind”, or “does not have a mind”). Third, look at the features of the entities belonging to each category, and use the features had by, and only by, the entities that have minds, and declare those as the features that make something a mind. 

A problem with induction might have occurred to you. How do we know if we have considered enough, or the right, examples? I might, for example, only have considered living things in my set of examples. In this case, I will have derived a set of features possessed by all living things I consider to have a mind, and concluded I had a pretty good definition of a mind. But what if those features are also possessed by pretty simple computers, and I wouldn’t have considered a simple computer to have a mind? My definition would have been too restrictive, because I failed to consider examples that ruled simple computers out. But I wouldn’t know this, because I had never considered the computers in the first place! The problem is clear: how can we know when we are done considering examples, or that we have considered the right set of examples? We can’t really know this, unless we already know the answer we are looking for in the first place! Inductive reasoning has allowed philosophers and scientists to propose useful definitions of the mind. But because we can never be sure that we have considered all the relevant examples, we can never be absolutely certain that our definition is correct.

Deductive reasoning does not have this problem. In a deductive argument, if the premises are true, and if the argument is a valid logical argument, then logically speaking, the argument must be true. This sounds great! Why don’t we use deductive reasoning all the time? The reason is because deductive reasoning has its own set of problems. Remember, deductive reasoning postulates that if the premises are true, and if the argument is logically valid, then the argument must be true. So there are two different kinds of ways that an argument can be wrong.

The first way that a deductive argument can be wrong is that the argument is not logically valid. In other words, the conclusion is not necessarily true, even if the premises are both true. This can happen when the argument involves a fallacy of reasoning, such as tautology or affirming the consequent (which we will discuss in Chapter 2). Our original argument that we used to introduce deductive reasoning is actually an example of an invalid argument. Can you identify why the conclusion need not be true, even if both of its premises are true?

The second way that a deductive logical argument can be wrong is if at least one of its premises are wrong. In our original argument, our two premises were that all humans have minds, and all humans can think. How do we know that these premises are true? To prove that these are true, we have to construct deductive arguments for these premises as well. These arguments, with our original premise as its conclusion, will have their own premises. Of course, now we need to prove that these premises are true too! We might be worried about this process being infinite. In Chapter 2, we will talk about some ways that philosophers and scientists have dealt with this potential limitation to deductive reasoning.

It would be very frustrating if we ended the chapter without at least some definition of the mind. So let us give the dictionary definition. Merriam Webster defines mind as “the element or complex of elements in an individual that feels, perceives, thinks, wills, and especially reasons”. This is a pretty decent working definition. But as we move through later chapters, and talk about all of the topics that this book will cover - including the philosophy of mind, cognitive psychology, neuroscience, biology, culture, language, and artificial intelligence - we will try to stay aware of ways in which this definition of the mind might be constraining, leading us astray, or limiting the ways that we are thinking about the mind.
