# 1.3. Defining Brain and Cognitive Science

---
### 1.3.3. Sub-domains of BCS

---
As noted, one of the core features of Brain and Cognitive Science is that it is an interdisciplinary science. What then, are some of its subdisciplines? And how do those subdisciplines fit into the greater whole?

**Neuroscience**<br>
Neuroscience, is of course, one of the primary sub-disciplines of brain and cognitive science. In our computational metaphor, the brain and body are the hardware on which the mind is running, and we need to understand that hardware to understand how the mind works. In neuroscience there is much to understand. At the lowest levels, we must understand how individual neurons work. Neurons have various behaviors that allow them to encode and pass along information. Individual neurons are organized in complex arrangements, and their organization gives sets of neurons (sometimes called neural circuits) special properties, allowing them to encode certain types of relationships and perform special kinds of computations. Neural circuits can be thought of as being organized into neural systems (such as the visual system, the limbic system, and the language system), which are useful for performing certain tasks. Understanding how neurons, neural circuits, and neural systems work is an incredibly important part of brain and cognitive science.

**Psychology**<br>
Psychology, like neuroscience, is also one of the primary sub-disciplines of brain and cognitive science. The field of psychology is incredibly broad, ranging from people trained as physicists, studying how vision and sound work, to behaviorists studying how reward and punishment shape behavior, to Freudian psychoanalysts tracing all your psychoses to your relationships with your parents. Today, one sub-branch of psychology called cognitive psychology, is the sub-branch that lives and breathes the cognitive science approach, with its focus on representations, information processing, and the computer metaphor of the mind. Cognitive psychologists look at human behavior and think of them like software programs. What are their purposes, what are their suprocesses, what information is being used, and what are the algorithms that are processing that information?

**Biology**<br>
Different subfields of biology (such as genetics, evolution, animal behavior, and ecology) have been very useful for understanding the mind and brain. Our brain and body are, or course, built by our genetic code. But what does this tell us about how much of our behavior is derivative, in a simple and straightforward way, from our genes? To know this, we need to understand how do genes build brains and other body parts? What role does the environment play in this process? Clearly, understanding the relationship between genetics, develop, and our body is of critical importance. Relatedly, there is much that can be understood about why we have the genes and physical structures that we do by comparing human bodies and brains to those of other animals. 

**Anthropology
Our biological nature, the shape and capabilities of our body, and the nature and organization of our brain, clearly impose immense constraints on the nature of the mind. But they are not the only constraints. Society and culture, in their own ways, shape and constrain the nature of the mind. Anthropology is the study of human societies and cultures, and their development, and thus is the subfield most involved in studying how human cultures affect the mind. The ability to create complex cultures, and learn and pass down information across generations, is one of the most distinctive attributes of the human species. The field of anthropology can tell us many things about the way that society and culture shapes the way that we think.

**Linguistics**<br>
Our ability to develop society and culture is one thing that makes humans stand out from the animal kingdom. A second critical feature of the human mind is the ability to use language. Language, the ability to communicate using auditory, visual, or other kinds of  symbols in  structured way, is clearly one of the most fascinating and special abilities of our species. From the beginning of brain and cognitive science, the human ability to use language has played a central role in many key debates about the mind. To what extent are our linguistic abilities hardwired into our genome, and to what extent are they learned and/or a cultural creation? What is the nature of linguistic knowledge, and how is it stored, used, and acquired? The study of language can, in many ways, be thought of as a microcosm of the study of the mind as a whole. The field of linguistics, and the vast accumulation of knowledge about the nature of languages across the globe, is thus an incredibly important part of the field of brain and cognitive science, and will be discussed in Chapter 9.

**Computer Science and AI**<br>
Just as neuroscientists, psychologists, and other scientists want to understand biological minds, computer scientists and artificial intelligence engineers are interested in the formal principles that can be used to create intelligent, thinking things. In the last decade, research in AI has started to yield tremendous benefits, new ideas, and new products. But what does AI research tell us about the nature of mind? Will we ever be able to build machines that think as well, or better, than we do? Would we want to? The questions raised by AI about the nature of the mind are of critical importance to Brain and Cognitive Science, and will be discussed in Chapter 10.

**Education**<br>
From an application perspective, one of the most important things society can gain from the field of brain and cognitive science is a better understanding of learning and education. We spend our whole lives learning new things, and concentrate extensively on it for our first 20-30 years. Before entering school, what is the best way to teach a child to talk, to behave, and to think? At school, how should we organize classes and curriculum to maximize educational achievement. What are we learning about biological and cultural differences that can help us education more people in better ways? Learning is one of the fundamental things that the mind does, and so studying how to improve learning is one of the most important things that we can do.

**Philosophy**<br>
We end with philosophy. Philosophy is where the study of the mind began, thousands of years ago. What role does philosophy play now, in brain and cognitive science. But the short answer is that Philosophy still has a tremendously important role to play. Philosophers’ biggest contribution is helping clarify our thinking when we are asking and answering questions. If our thinking is unclear, if our definitions are imprecise, then science cannot happen, because our theories do not make precise predictions and cannot be properly tested. If science is to tell us anything definitive about the mind, we will probably need philosophy’s help. We will explore this in detail in Chapter 2.
