# 1.2. The Relationship Between Mind and Brain

---
### 1.2.1. The Mind-Body Problem

---
As we discussed in the previous section, an exact definition of the mind is difficult to derive. But there is one fact about human minds about which almost everyone agrees: the brain is involved. But what, exactly, is the relationship between the mind and the brain? In the philosophy of mind, this exploration of the relationship between the mind and the body is called the mind-body problem. Philosophers and scientists have put forward many solutions to the mind-body problem. We will discuss these in more detail in Chapter 2. But we will mention three broad categories of answers here.

One answer that we can give to the mind-body problem, one that has been very popular historically, is dualism. Dualism is the belief that the mind and the brain are fundamentally different kinds of things. The brain is a material thing (like all other matter in the universe). The mind, by contrast, is not a material thing, but instead is immaterial. Dualism has historically been a popular belief, especially of those coming from certain religious traditions, that have held that the mind is a part of the soul (or is the soul), and is separate from the body.  Many philosophers throughout history have attempted to support dualism by putting forward arguments attempting to prove that the mind is not a material thing like our body. For example, Descartes used his argument that he could be certain of the existence of his mind, but not of the existence of his body, to argue that mind and body must be fundamentally different kinds of things. 

Today, dualism is not a very popular position amongst philosophers or scientists. One major reason is because it seems to be impossible to explain how the mind and body could possibly interact if they are different kinds of things. If the mind is an immaterial substance, how can it possibly affect or interact with or exert control over the brain or body? A second reason for the fading popularity of dualism, of course, has been the rise of scientific understanding of biology and neuroscience. Most, if not all, of behavior seems like it might be explainable in terms of the machinery of neurons and the parts of the body that neurons control. If behavior can all be explained in terms of the brain and body, then what is left for an immaterial mind to do?

This leads us to a second kind of answer to the mind-body problem: to simply say that the mind and body are both the same kind of thing, physical materials. Philosophers usually refer to this position as materialism. But within the materialistic perspective, there are still a number of different ways one can approach the relationship between the brain and the mind. 