# 1.2. The Relationship Between Mind and Brain

---
### 1.2.2. Does Mind = Brain?

---
Today, the vast majority of scientists and philosophers subscribe to some variety of materialism, rejecting the idea that there is an immaterial soul that cannot be explained in terms of the body. But this does not mean that all scientists believe that studying the brain is the only way, or even the best way, to study the mind. Scientists’ perspectives on this question can largely be divided into three categories.

The first is eliminative materialism. According to the eliminative materialist view, traditional, non-material or non-biological conceptions of the mind will be eliminated, and replaced by explanations purely in terms of biology and neuroscience. A strict adherence to this belief would entail that explaining the mind at the level of cognitive psychology, or philosophy, or anthropology, is unnecessary and counterproductive. These scientists may not believe that biology or neuroscience is currently capable of explaining everything we care to know about the mind. But they believe that it eventually will. And when it does, sciences like cognitive psychology will fade away because there will be nothing left for them to explain.

Scientists who consistently hold this view are actually quite rare, because this position is in fact quite hard to defend. The main reason is that it is almost impossible to explain everything of interest purely in biological or neuroscientific terms, and still explain all of the phenomena that are of interest to human society. A fully biological reductionist explanation of behavior has its work cut out for it, because it cannot use any explanatory terms or concepts from psychology, anthropology, linguistics, or any other domain.

For example, if a scientist is truly trying to develop a theory of the mind that explains absolutely everything in terms of biology, then they really must explain everything in terms of the behavior of neurons and their activity. This means their theory is allowed to refer to neurons and other biological structures, and how they predict or explain the activity or structure of other biological structures. Critically, if you truly believe in biological reductionism, absolutely no psychological concepts of any kind are allowed. This means your theories and explanations cannot talk about memory, concepts, beliefs, because those are psychological concepts, not biological entities. Your theory can’t invoke feelings like pain, hunger or sensation, or any other subjective constructs that are not biological entities or their directly entailed behaviors.

A related problem with biological reductionism is not that it is wrong, per se, to say that everything could be explained in terms of biological activity, but that it is not useful to do so. Pure biological reductionism might be useful for explaining simple behaviors like reflexes: physical pressure on your knee just causes a certain sequence of neurons to fire, with the end result that electrical stimulation of your leg muscles leads to your leg kicking. But it seems like a lot of work to use this method to explain, for example, why I chose to order pizza from a particular pizzeria, how I knew how to call them, and what muscle movements my mouth made in the course of placing the telephone call. In this situation, psychological constructs like memory, procedural knowledge, beliefs, and desires, may lead to a more useful theory for explaining my actions.

The other extreme perspective within the materialist perspective is often called emergentism. Emergentists argue that the mind is an emergent product of the brain. But that the mind, once created, follows its own rules that cannot be understood or studied by referring back to the lower, biological level. You will sometimes hear emergentists say things like “the whole is more than the sum of the parts”, as a way of alluding to the fact that, even if you explain all of the (biological) parts of the mind, there is still plenty of explaining left to do, and that there are certain aspects of the mind which, even though they are caused by the brain, can never be explained by the brain.

Just as the extreme of pure biological reductionism is relatively unpopular, emergentism is also unpopular amongst scientists. If you think about emergentism, it is arguing something like the following. The mind, an emergentist argues, is following its own rules and not explainable in terms of lower, biological levels. It is more than the some of its parts. But this must mean that there must be some mental phenomena about which knowledge of brain or body would provide no useful explanation. That seems unlikely to many scientists, and smacks a bit of dualism.

A third, middle-ground position is the one endorsed by the large majority of scientists who study the mind and brain (or, at least, those who have thought about it explicitly). This is the idea of different, functional levels of analysis exist, and that there is something to be gained by positing theoretical constructs at multiple levels, and using relationships at multiple levels to try and understand everything better. We can learn about biology and neuroscience, and that will help us to better understand psychology and behavior. But we can also create psychological theories that will add additional insight by helping us interpret and better understand what is happening at the psychological level. Let us explore what this means in a little more detail.

