# 1.6.1 Lab Activities

---
## What is a mind?
---

We start this lab activity with a simple question. What is the mind? Based on what you have read in this Chapter, and previous
learning or thinking you have done on this subject, what is the best definition of the mind that you can give?
Take five minutes to think and consider this topic. If you are working on this lab with other people (advised!), then take the first
few minutes to answer the question yourself, and then compare your answer with your partner(s). Combine your answer to come up with the 
best answer that you can.

--- Ten Minute Work Period ---

1.) What is your definition of the mind?

Now that you have a working definition of the mind, let us be a little more explicit, and cast our definition in terms of features
that minds must or usually have. Make a list of features of the mind. Have your features take the form of "propositions", like "can X", "is Y", and "has Z".
For each feature, list whether you think that feature is a necessary feature of a mind, a sufficient feature of a mind, or a typical feature (that is neither necessary nor sufficient).
Come up with a list of at least 10 features independently. Then gather back with your group and compare and merge your lists.

--- Twenty Minute Work Period ---

2.) What is your list of features?
 
Now we are going to apply the inductive reasoning process described in Chapter 1.
We will go through a series of examples of entities. For each one, answer: a) whether you think it has a mind, b) if yes, does your 
definition of a mind, in terms of you r list of features, allow it be considered a mind? If not, does your definition rule it out? c) how do you need to change your definition
as a result. For each one, work directly with your group.

--- Thirty Minute Work Period --- 

3.1. A human being in a deep sleep<br>
3.2. A human being in a coma<br>
3.3. A human being with severe brain damage and who is in a vegetative state<br>
3.4. A human being with dementia who cannot remember anything from their life<br>
3.5. A typical two-year-old<br>
3.6. A typical one-month-old<br>
3.7. A fetus at 8 months of gestation<br>
3.8. A dog<br>
3.9. A cow<br>
3.10. A cockroach<br>
3.11. A tree<br>
3.12. A single living neuron kept alive and functioning artificially<br>
3.13. A cloud<br>
3.14. Your phone<br>
3.15. The Terminator (or some other advanced robot from science fiction that you are familiar with)<br>
3.16. A thermostat<br>