# 1.6.1 Lab Activities

---
## Braitenberg's Vehicle #2
---

Imagine that you are a scientist tasked with explaining the behavior of a new organism.
You can only find the organism in a specific kind of environment: one with abundant sources of heat.

In the simulation below, you can find an example of just such an environment. The orange circles are heat sources.
The turtle-shaped entities are the organism that you are studying. You can press the "play" button to begin the simulation, and the 
same button to pause the simulation. If you want to observe a new sample, you can press the "Reset" button..

Watch the simulation independently for a few minutes and then jot down your thoughts about what is happening. Then converse with
your group (if you have one) and compare your answers. What level of analysis where you using to perform this description? Were your descriptions
more physics-like, neuroscience-like, or psychology-like? Can you come up with an explanation at each of those levels? Why or why not??

--- Five Minute Work Period ---

1. Briefly describe what you think is happening, including answering the questions about level of analysis from above.

Now, formalize your process using the scientific method. What are the steps to the scientific method? Describe how you go though each step,
and what you learned by each iteration? How does using the scientific method sharpen your explanation of the animals' behavior?

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/pygame/2fdc15020f?toggleCode=true" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

2.) Describe the neuroscience level of analysis discussed during the lab section. How is it different from a physics-level of analysis or a psychological level of analysis?