# 1.6.1 Lab Activities

---
## George Conway's Game of Life
---

We have another scientific investigation to perform.
In the simulation below, you can click on a cell, making it "come alive" (turn from grey to yellow). 
You can live observe what happens over time by clicking the "Next" button to advance the world one time step, or clicking the "Start" button to allow it to advance many time steps. 
Try creating some life and observing what happens. Can you discover any patterns or rules or regularities?
Imagine that you are a scientist trying to discover the "laws" of this world. What are they?
Work in your group to try to discover the laws of this world..

1.) What are the rules that determine whether a cell is on or off on a given turn.
Hint, you can determine the rules by considering a cell and all of its immediately adjacent neighbors (including the diagonals).

2.) What are some of the higher-order patterns that you notice in the display.
One example is the pattern of a "blinker", three cells in a line that alternate from being horizontal and vertical.
List at least five patterns that exist at higher-level of analysis than the rules at the cellular level.
Do you notice any "rules" at this higher level that are true most or all of the time?

3.) In what ways are these two levels of analysis (the cellular-rule level and the higher order level) simlar or different to the 
levels of analysis that exist when we are doing brain and cognitive science (like analyzing things at the physics, biological, and psychological levels).

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/pygame/99f8f62e31?toggleCode=true" width="100%" height="1000" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>